eSports athletes have hard jobs sure
they're doing what they love but so are
most professional sports athletes
baseball players love throwing the ball
hockey players love being the crap out
of each other and polo players will they
love being more wealthy than you all
those jobs come with upsides and
downsides and eSports is no different
but to really get an idea of just sort
of the struggle eSports players go
through we have to compare it to
something in the sports world and that's
why for this video we're gonna be
looking at professional league of
Legends players versus the American
competitive football now I know what a
lot of you are saying right now football
is way harder than leaf elections
because you get hit in the face or gets
knocked to the ground like there's so
much I get it
but there are a lot of things that can
make a job difficult now to compare
League of Legends in professional
football we need a baseline so we're
gonna separate the people that are
playing football during recess and for
fun people that are playing on ranks and
League of Legends so let's look at the
numbers for starters even getting in to
the LCS is hard according to NFL report
numbers from Louie back in 2013 because
we don't have a big research budget out
of the three hundred and ten thousand
four hundred sixty five high school
seniors who played football only a 0.08
percent would make it to be one of the
sixteen hundred ninety six players in a
professional football club in the US
according to numbers from the same year
about league of legends out of lis
roughly three hundred thousand Golder
above ranked players in North America
only 0.0001 percent will make it into
one of the sixty na LCS busts so what's
the bottom line well and North American
League legends about one in every 10,000
gold or above ranked players makes it
into the NA LCS
wears in football it's more like one in
every 1250 senior high school players
that make it into the NFL how long are
the careers of athletes in both cases
well barring posts athlete careers like
coaching streaming or giving up
competitive solitary to become an
eSports interviewer the turnover rates
are actually pretty high in both cases
in the NFL the average career length is
three point three years with the highest
being around
eleven point seven years for players to
manage a Pro Bowl appearance under their
belt in the LCS the career average
hasn't had as long as the NFL together
exact data but in most cases a two-year
career is the average with the longest
career in the NA LCS blind to doublelift
who's been playing for seven years
actually since before the LCS started in
2011 he's also my best friend as an
example the oldest active LCS player is
jake xmithie Pajero at 26 years old
contrast that with the oldest active NFL
player Adam Vinatieri who is a 40 year
old kicker for the Colts and he's in his
18th season of play the bottom line here
is that League of Legends careers are
shorter on average by one point three
years and the average player is about
4.2 years younger now since we've
acknowledged the physical differences
it's pretty safe to say that League of
Legends players have it pretty hard when
it comes to game time the average game
time in league is about 32 minutes long
and they can actually go way longer than
that in fact in spring at 2018 the
longest game was 74 minutes
an average NFL game lasts about 3 hours
and 12 minutes but there's only 11
minutes of actual playing time due to
about 20 commercial breaks and 67
minutes of players coaches and officials
just standing around between plays
injuries timeouts and replays which
averaged about 17 minutes of the total
game time the average NFL player only
plays for about 3 to 4 minutes per game
the bottom line is that the average LCS
player plays around 10 times longer than
the average NFL player does per game
both football and League offer a lot of
ways for their players to make
additional cash like sponsorships
endorsements and streaming but what
about when it comes to this base salary
the average base salary of the League of
Legends player in North America this
year was around 320,000 reportedly and
the LCS rulebook the minimum allowed
salary for players around 75 K now in
the NFL the average player makes 2.1
million with the minimum pay allowed by
the league being four hundred and
sixty-five thousand dollars in the first
year of play and it goes up every year
the bottom line here is that the average
league player makes around six point
five times less than a
Claire and the minimum pays about 6.2
times less
now you might not know this but the NFL
has real changes every year what
constitutes is a foul what can get you
disqualified and even what counts as a
catch in 2017 there were eight changes
the way that football is played in
league there are around 12 to 25 changes
per patch with multiple patches per
season these changes can be anything
from a damage of character dust to
something more substantive like how the
champion actually plays in the game
sometimes a champions kid is no longer
recognizable as the same character most
of the changes aren't due to the balance
of the game as a professional a sport
but for the main audience of the game
it'd be like making one end of the
football squared because the fans who
play football occasionally want to kick
it easier the bottom line is there's an
unimaginable number of changes that
occur in league of legends per year
whereas the NFL that number is usually
around ten in order to be a top-tier
competitor in the NFL or in League of
Legends you have to practice a lot the
average NFL player practices or trains
around five hours per day this includes
workouts drills classroom sessions and
even actual game practice in league the
reported training numbers are higher
with around eight hours of playtime
scheduled per day but most players
continue beyond that to keep their
skills up and soloqueue or even while
streaming one player reported playing at
least 10 hours per day and doing
physical training in addition to that
NFL players have hard jobs there's no
doubt about that the injury rates are
obviously way higher than an eSports do
you have to maintain a specific weight
or you get fined by your team and you
have to run which is maybe one of the
worst things in the world but in spite
of all that if playing the game that
they love is what their job is being an
eSports athlete is harder than you might
think
[Music]